Case C
How well do we really know our coworkers and at what point are we obligated to
speak up about what someone is/isn’t doing?
A few years ago, I worked with a gentleman who was on one of the teams that I
supported the data for. He had portrayed himself as an expert in the programming
language being used, as well as being ‘fast’.
I first met him during a break, when I was outside having a ‘smoke’ break. It’s okay
to groan and wrinkle your nose. It is a nasty habit. Although it is an undesirable
habit, it also provides an invaluable way to get to know people from other
departments, teams and to get a feel for someone’s personality. He seemed very
personable at first, but something was kind of off with him. It wasn’t anything he
said specifically, it was just an uneasy feeling. He was often outside in the break
area, sans laptop, and while I avoided him because something didn’t sit right, I
often overheard his conversations. This was not on purpose. He was kind of loud
and sometimes, it couldn’t be helped.
Some of the things I overheard were: he would brag about ‘milking his time’ sheet
and dragging out his assignments; he would brag about getting away with working
remote—it was well before Covid and remote work was only allowed in extreme
situations; he would brag about not having to pay daycare because he would bring
his child with him and hide her in his cube. This is in a secure facility, where visitors
need to have a specific reason to be there.
After a while, I noticed that he often smelled of alcohol and sometimes, like
marijuana (again before it was legalized). Once he lit a rolled cigarette that those of
us outside were fairly sure was marijuana. When someone commented on it, all he
would say was that the company couldn’t do anything about it if it was, since drug
testing wasn’t allowed. At one point, he claimed to be homeless and couch surfing,
while his child would shake her head to indicate it wasn’t true.
During this time, we had a local team member who couldn’t seem to make it into
the office for our daily sync up. He’d comment that either his car wouldn’t start or
there was traffic. The reasons were numerous. The voice was familiar, but I
couldn't quite place it. This particular team member was beginning to miss
deadlines and the ones he didn’t miss, the code was shoddy. We (the other team
members and I) could never find him in his cube. His behavior was becoming
erratic and problematic, however, the company had nothing solid with which to
terminate employment.
Then one day, he came into our morning sync a little late. He didn’t recognize me,
but I recognized him. Later that week, I needed to talk to him about a data item
and stopped by his cube, only to find his child there and him somewhere else.