Ksenia Polson: Well, in the interest of time. We want to be respectful of everyone's time, so we'll get started. Ksenia Polson: So welcome to week 3 of the our staff's course Ksenia Polson: right? So this week, the lecture portion will cover the normal probability distribution, right? So thinking about those continuous variables, and where the probability distribution comes from. Ksenia Polson: For your discussion and homework this week. Right? The lab portion Ksenia Polson: we'll cover well first.st I'll demonstrate. Kind of Ksenia Polson: little bit more on, you know, why do we sample data right? And what it means? Ksenia Polson: What? Some of those things look like as well as looking at survey responses. Ksenia Polson: Right? Actually analyzing data from a national survey coming from pew research. Right? You might be familiar with it. Right? They come out with a pretty interesting findings. They collect data, and Ksenia Polson: they apply certain weights to the data right? Ksenia Polson: To be representative of the whole Us. Population. Ksenia Polson: This is just kind of interesting to know what the you know American public is talking about and thinking about. You know, commenting on current events. Hi. Ksenia Polson: so quick recap of last week. Ksenia Polson: Right, we talked about discrete probability distributions Ksenia Polson: also covered right? Basically, these 6 Ksenia Polson: basic logs, right of probability Ksenia Polson: and how we may apply them right? There was the addition rule. Ksenia Polson: Write the complement of an event. Right? That's everything but the event. Ksenia Polson: the multiplication rule. Right? So if we have Ksenia Polson: a couple of independent events. For example, costing a tool, a coin, right, a 2 sided coin, or the probability of Ksenia Polson: right getting your heads on each one right could be found by multiplying right those probabilities Ksenia Polson: also talked about using the addition law for events that do not or are mutually exclusive. That means they do not. Ksenia Polson: are not connected in any way necessarily, so that therefore, they're mutually exclusive. Ksenia Polson: And so we use the addition law right to calculate those sorts of probabilities. Finally. Ksenia Polson: probably the one that is most frequently used is the conditional probability right? So that Ksenia Polson: the probability of event, a happening right given that the event B has already happened, right probability of a given event. B has occurred. Right? So we know some kind of information that is informing right the probability of the other event. Ksenia Polson: so as far as topics for this week, right? Again, continuous probability distributions. What does a normal probability distribution look like right? And actually talking about a little bit more of the vocab in terms of understanding. What is the point? Estimate what is sampling variability? Ksenia Polson: Right? So what is the difference between your sample parameters right? And your population parameters. So they're a little bit different. We'll just use different names to call them in statistics. Ksenia Polson: right? So basically, right when we're talking about continuous random variables. Ksenia Polson: They're not countable right? What does that mean? Well, they're not countable right? If we can't count them. Ksenia Polson: They're not very meaningful to us. Right? Ksenia Polson: So, for example, if we have Ksenia Polson: X right representing a service call Ksenia Polson: right or service time in the call center, right? For example, how many minutes does it take Ksenia Polson: like on a typical day, right for the employee right to respond to a problem right? Well. Ksenia Polson: if the probability of X is 5.5 min. Ksenia Polson: Right? Ksenia Polson: And if x is continuous. Ksenia Polson: the probability that this time right or X equals exactly any particular value, right? The service the time to respond to a call Ksenia Polson: is exactly 5.5 min. Ksenia Polson: Right? It's the probability of that is actually 0, right? Because there's a wide range of times right, the request for help could take right depending on the complexity of the problem. Ksenia Polson: So for that reason, right, we're now moving from Ksenia Polson: discrete probability distributions right where we were able to say, right, Oh. Ksenia Polson: what is what was the specific probability? Right of anyone of any event occurring? Ksenia Polson: Right, based on the discrete probability distribution. Ksenia Polson: But we're now more interested right in the range of those values. Ksenia Polson: Right? So what we're looking for is the probability that X right Ksenia Polson: or the time to respond to service call belongs to a range of Ksenia Polson: right more than 5 min, but less than 10 min. Right? Ksenia Polson: So for that reason, we actually use what's called the density curve right to describe this probability distribution. Ksenia Polson: So again, right when we're talking about the discrete probability distributions Ksenia Polson: right when we're talking about how the probabilities are actually distributed over the values of the random, variable. Ksenia Polson: Okay? Ksenia Polson: And that's when we saw the probability function, right? That was the F of X Ksenia Polson: right, which actually gave us the probability right of each value of our random, variable rate. Right? Remember that was the example of Ksenia Polson: the number of Tvs sold right in the store over a particular time range. Right Ksenia Polson: where there was, we could compute right, the probability of Ksenia Polson: a specific number of TV stores right being sold over a specific amount of time. Ksenia Polson: So again, the random variable is simply basically a numerical representation Ksenia Polson: right of the outcome of our experiment. Ksenia Polson: And this is what we're after. Ksenia Polson: So things get a little bit more interesting, right? When we're actually looking at the continuous probability distribution, right? Ksenia Polson: Which is what most parametric statistical tests are based on right in statistics. Ksenia Polson: Does anyone know what parametric statistics means? Ksenia Polson: Oh, so parametric statistics, basically, you know, as it says here, right. It's a branch of statistics that basically Ksenia Polson: assumes that you're the sample data that you're working with is coming from a population right? That you want to learn more about, and is being modeled by this probability distribution right with a particular set of Ksenia Polson: parameters. Right? Your means, your standard deviations, etc. Ksenia Polson: Right? So, for example, right? Ksenia Polson: We have data on loan amount. Right? Ksenia Polson: You have a smooth curve on the right hand side, right? Representing what we call the probability distribution function. Ksenia Polson: or also knows the density or the distribution on its own right, so different names for the same thing. Ksenia Polson: right? So on the left hand side, we just have the histogram, and on the right hand side we have the probability density function. Ksenia Polson: right? So showing the the actual amounts of our load amount. Ksenia Polson: So what it enables us to do right is actually to make a prediction based on the actual variables values in our data set. Ksenia Polson: And we have certain assumptions, right that we have to meet for our inference to be correct. Ksenia Polson: Okay, so one of these assumptions, right? Is that the variables in the data set follow a normal distribution. Ksenia Polson: Hi, so the distribution and this distribution. And we'll talk about what normal distribution is in a minute. Ksenia Polson: Right has a special property where the tall area under the density curve. Ksenia Polson: Right? But this little area, what we're seeing is equal to one right. Everything under the curve is equal to one. Ksenia Polson: So using that information right, we can now actually compute right the proportion of loans that fall within the specified range of values. Right, for example, to 10,000 to 20,000. Ksenia Polson: Right? We can actually find these certain areas Ksenia Polson: under the curve. Well, this would be 10,000 to 10,000, right this area over here to compute Ksenia Polson: right what proportion of loans is actually going to fall right between these 2 numbers. Ksenia Polson: We can make. Basically, we can make a prediction that way, right? So quick. Summary of Ksenia Polson: what discrete random variables are right. Ksenia Polson: With the fact that a random variable can take on only certain values right along the interval. Ksenia Polson: And these are the Ksenia Polson: types of distributions, right? That would fall under the discrete, random, variable right, the binomial poisson, negative, binomial. So these are all very much valid Ksenia Polson: right? Ksenia Polson: However, right in in parametric statistics, right? Which is where we actually Ksenia Polson: are trying to right. Take a sample and Ksenia Polson: make an inference right about our sample to make an inference about the larger population. We're typically working with the continuous, random, variable right Ksenia Polson: which basically lets us assume right, the random variable assumes Ksenia Polson: they can take on any value at any point along the interval, right? Ksenia Polson: So we could be measuring things like temperature, height, weight, car, speed, etc. Ksenia Polson: right? And the this continuous pro probability distribution, right is Ksenia Polson: right? We can be computed with this, the probability density function. Ksenia Polson: Okay? Ksenia Polson: So instead of just a few or a lot right of outcomes. We now have an infinite number of possible outcomes right that could be occurring. Ksenia Polson: so the total probability of all the outcomes added together still gonna be one. Right? So Ksenia Polson: all the probabilities will still add up to 100% or one. Ksenia Polson: Okay. But the probability of any one X value right? Ksenia Polson: So of the loan amount being 10,000 right? The probability of Ksenia Polson: the average loan amount being $10,000. Ksenia Polson: Right is going to be 0. Ksenia Polson: Right? Ksenia Polson: So this is different from a discrete probability distribution. Ksenia Polson: right where you can actually compute Ksenia Polson: right what? The the value would be. Ksenia Polson: Okay, so all these ranges of values will have positive, or possibly a 0 probability of occurring. Ksenia Polson: Okay. Ksenia Polson: so and these are the types of distributions. Right? That you will see assuming a continuous random variable. This is the uniform distribution, the normal distribution. Right? This is the one we typically work with Ksenia Polson: standard normal. This is when we're converting our sample in a way standardizing our values right? Ksenia Polson: To a mean of 0 and a standard deviation of one right for comparison purposes. Ksenia Polson: Or sometimes to make things on the same scale. Ksenia Polson: You see exponential. Right? That's the curve. That kind of goes up right as time progresses. High squared tests. Ksenia Polson: right? Are typically used in non, numeric data. Right? When you're comparing categories. Ksenia Polson: And there's others, right? The F test, right? That's based on Ksenia Polson: supports the Anova test, right analysis of variants. Ksenia Polson: any questions so far. So it's a little bit theoretical. But I really want to kind of drive the point home, you know as to why we're doing right. Ksenia Polson: and then give you a little bit more of a foundation. Ksenia Polson: Okay? Ksenia Polson: So Ksenia Polson: the probability? Ksenia Polson: Right? So Ksenia Polson: what I have established. Right. I hope right? Is this continuous, variable right, this random variable can take on any value Ksenia Polson: over a fix or an open interval of balance right? So as long as we, we're assuming right Ksenia Polson: this, we can actually compute the probability by looking out Ksenia Polson: the area under the curve. Right? Ksenia Polson: So, for example. In other words, the probability of X Ksenia Polson: tagging value between some lower value Ksenia Polson: of x 1 right and some higher value of x 2 right but can be found. Ksenia Polson: I'm like computing this learning over here. Ksenia Polson: either between the 2 or under your Ksenia Polson: right, depending on the type of this probability distribution. We're working on my Google workspace. Ksenia Polson: But these are all examples of the probability density functions right for each of these 3 distributions. Ksenia Polson: So the shape of a numerical distribution, right? Does this look familiar? Right? I think we've covered skewedness at least a little bit Ksenia Polson: right in the intro class. Ksenia Polson: So what does skewness tell us, skewness? And in the variable. Ksenia Polson: Yeah, it's basically it's summarizing. Ksenia Polson: like, how how our distribution looks like right? It could be skewed to the right. So you have Ksenia Polson: a larger amount of values to the left, right, with the tail to the right it could be screened to the left. Oh. Ksenia Polson: that that might be even better. You can see better. If the distribution has a long tail, Ksenia Polson: right, it's left skewed the majority of points on the right hand side. Ksenia Polson: If it's symmetric, right. This is what we want, right? We want the distribution to be roughly equal, right on both sides. Ksenia Polson: both directions. Ksenia Polson: So ideally right. We would have, I guess maybe a rough approximation. What's in the middle? Right? We know Ksenia Polson: often it's not the case. But as long as it's roughly resembling right, the symmetric distribution. We're okay, as far as the assumptions are concerned, right for us to do all this stuff. Ksenia Polson: Oh, so if it's Ksenia Polson: really not looking right like the graph in in the center. We may need to do some transformations right to be able to apply our statistics. Ksenia Polson: parametric statistics. Ksenia Polson: So when we're talking about the normal probabilities distribution. Right? So I think I've established right, this is the most common and the most important distribution. Ksenia Polson: We're describing our continuous variables. So this is where a lot of the Ksenia Polson: well, basically the forms the basis of inferential statistics. Right for us to have Ksenia Polson: you know, the meeting, the assumptions and the foundation right to be able to. You know, take some sample data and make an inference based on it. Ksenia Polson: So what are some of the properties here? Ksenia Polson: If the histogram of our data is roughly symmetric, right? If it looks something like this. Ksenia Polson: and it is centered around the mean right? Ksenia Polson: We can make decisions that are quite robust, right? Or meaning that are can be quite meaningful. Ksenia Polson: Right? Because we're meeting our assumptions. Ksenia Polson: so rarely do we find right, perfectly normal distributions, although you can think of some as right if you have ever taken. Has anyone taken an IQ test Ksenia Polson: ever suit? Ksenia Polson: If you look at into what the data typically looks like, it will actually resemble a normal distribution right where the Ksenia Polson: about right 60, Ksenia Polson: 8% or so of people will fall in that middle right will be around the mean. Ksenia Polson: and then you'll see, you know. Ksenia Polson: larger, you know. Smaller, smaller amount of people Ksenia Polson: falling on the either side of the distribution or the mean Ksenia Polson: So again, the high point, right? If we're looking at this normal probability, curve right. The high point is the mean right? This is the mean of our distribution Ksenia Polson: right? And it can be. Any value, can be any number. And it's going to tell us the center of our distribution Ksenia Polson: right, the standard deviation. I do remember what standard deviation is from last week. Ksenia Polson: Annual one. Ksenia Polson: The standard deviation tells us right how spread out the data is from the mean right, and it is always positive. Ksenia Polson: right? And so it really determines right how wide. Ksenia Polson: right or narrow the curve is our pro, our normal probability distribution curve. Ksenia Polson: And again, right? This probability that we're computing Ksenia Polson: is given by the area under this curve. Ksenia Polson: So what are some practical applications right of knowing this right? What can we do Ksenia Polson: with this information? What can we predict? Ksenia Polson: Anyone have a clue? Ksenia Polson: It's online folks. Ksenia Polson: Well, I mean, we can actually measure right any number of things, right? Any number of problems, for example. Ksenia Polson: percent. Right? If you were. Ksenia Polson: you know, working in a setting where you're asked to measure percent of return on a certain assets, right? Ksenia Polson: Whether it's in a financial market or something like that over a, you know fixed amount of time. Right? You can actually compute right? The probability right of a certain percent right return on investment type thing. Ksenia Polson: right? So any, this is just one application. But Ksenia Polson: you can do any number of things right to compute, you know, as long as there's some kind of a probability right that you're predicting, you can compute right, the probability of it happening Ksenia Polson: with some confidence. Ksenia Polson: So if we're looking at this normal probability distribution, right? Ksenia Polson: Basically, what we have is, you know, basic rule of thumb. Right? Is that probability? Ksenia Polson: Oh, is determined by right, your population. And as you move Ksenia Polson: right to the right or to the left Ksenia Polson: right. You're going a distinct number of standard deviations away from the mean right? Ksenia Polson: Either in the positive direction or in the negative direction. So basically what this diagram is telling us Ksenia Polson: is that 68% or about 68% of your observations are going to fall within one standard deviation of the mean right on both sides. Ksenia Polson: About 95% right of your observations or your X values. Right? Again, X is your random, variable Ksenia Polson: will fall within 2 standard deviations, right? Ksenia Polson: And about 99% will fall within 3 standard deviations of the mean. Ksenia Polson: Some of the risks are outliers by now. Ksenia Polson: It means it was not on your 1st time. Ksenia Polson: Right? So mean, the rest would be. Ksenia Polson: Yeah, I guess, would be considered extreme observations right? Because, as we know. Ksenia Polson: it should equal to a hundred percent. Right? Ksenia Polson: I mean. And yeah, so I guess there, there's a little bit of not as precise. Ksenia Polson: It's a hundred percent. Ksenia Polson: Any questions. So far. Ksenia Polson: So the standard normal distribution, right? Ksenia Polson: I'm sure you've seen it before. Ksenia Polson: Basically, this often called a special case of the normal distribution where Ksenia Polson: the mean right becomes 0. And the standard deviation is one. Right? So basically, you're Ksenia Polson: performing a, your computing is used for right new finds. Ksenia Polson: This is, of course, this is widely used Ksenia Polson: right in standardization, in comparing different data sets and making scales more similar Ksenia Polson: right? But this is what it looks like. Ksenia Polson: Yes. Ksenia Polson: Do anyone remembers what a Z score is right? And basically a Z score is a score that is. Ksenia Polson: tells us the number of standard deviation units Ksenia Polson: between a value and the mean of its distribution. Ksenia Polson: Right? So what we're looking at is we're looking to convert Ksenia Polson: our original X values to a Z score, all right. Ksenia Polson: and what a Z score tells us one. It tells us 2 things right. The 1st is, whether the value right or your X Ksenia Polson: is above or below the mean right? Ksenia Polson: So we'll know whether the value is positive or negative, and 2, the Z score tells us by how much right Ksenia Polson: this value lies above or below me. Ksenia Polson: Okay, so this observation Ksenia Polson: I will see an example in a moment is one standard deviation above the mean, then the Z score is equal to one Ksenia Polson: right? If we're going the other direction right? If the observation is 1.5 standard deviations below the mean and the Z score is negative 1.5. Ksenia Polson: Okay. Ksenia Polson: so what we're assuming is that if an observation is coming from our distribution right, the n, the capital N being our population right with the population, mu and a sigma right? That's the population standard deviation. Ksenia Polson: We can find our Z score right. If we were to compute it manually, we could do it that way right? But this is what's happening in the background. Ksenia Polson: Right? If there's also a way obviously to do it with software. Ksenia Polson: Okay? Ksenia Polson: So one way right, we can perform. The standardization is Ksenia Polson: and demonstrated with an example. So if your ex Ksenia Polson: is a random, variable right representing your monthly salary right? If when you graduate. Ksenia Polson: so say you make, you know $10,000 right? Ksenia Polson: When you graduate per month with a standard deviation of 3, Ksenia Polson: right? You can actually compute right what the Z Score would look like. Ksenia Polson: And so this would be the distribution right of the current problem. Right? We have 10,000 Ksenia Polson: basically using this symbol. 10, it's representing 1010,000. Ksenia Polson: Oh, and then here, this is the standard normal distribution by 0 standard deviation of one. Ksenia Polson: And we're standardizing our X variable here, right? The 10,000. Ksenia Polson: We actually end up with a Ksenia Polson: the green curve over there, right? So we see that shift right from the blue curve. After we have standardized into the green curve. Right? You can see the distribution of the data is the same. Ksenia Polson: only the scale has changed. Ksenia Polson: Right is now we have right. The mean of our variables is equal to 0. Ksenia Polson: And so this is used in many statistical right and decision making applications. Ksenia Polson: Obviously, statistical inference, right? Computing, confidence intervals. Ksenia Polson: hypothesis tests basis for regression models. Right? This is where it's all coming from theoretically. Ksenia Polson: Okay, so here's how we can actually do this in R, right? Ksenia Polson: What the pnorm function will do. Ksenia Polson: It will take the Z score right that we have computed and return that lower tail area under the curve. Ksenia Polson: Right? So, for example. Ksenia Polson: Well, I guess we'll get to it in a minute. Ksenia Polson: The queue norm, right will give us the Z-score right Ksenia Polson: as long as we supply it with the percentage, the p-value, or, in other words, the percentage of observations that lie towards the left of our X value. Ksenia Polson: Okay, that actually corresponds to the Cdf function or the cumulative distribution function. Ksenia Polson: So, for example, right? If our monthly salaries right for our graduates out of our program are 15,000, Ksenia Polson: right? We can actually compute are z score Ksenia Polson: in return, right? The tail area onto under the curtain. Ksenia Polson: So Ksenia Polson: what fraction of our our Msds graduates of salaries lower than $15,000 a month. Ksenia Polson: it would actually be about 95% Ksenia Polson: right? Which also corresponds to a z-score of 1.6 6. Ksenia Polson: Okay? Ksenia Polson: So you can actually see, like knowing, you need some information right to be able to compute these probabilities. Right? So either you need disease score or the the tail area under the curve. Right? That you're trying to Ksenia Polson: finds. Ksenia Polson: Okay? Ksenia Polson: So you can either use our right, which is what I would recommend or Ksenia Polson: Obviously, you'll find this in all the textbooks or online right to be able to make these calculations. Ksenia Polson: So this is a exercise right? Using Z scores. Ksenia Polson: So this is also from your textbook, right? Ksenia Polson: But basically, what what we have is a problem. Right? We have. Ksenia Polson: like newspaper articles, states right? The the distribution of our outer insurance premiums, right for residents of California is approximately normal right? The mean of 1650. Ksenia Polson: We also know that 25% of our residents pay more than 1,800. Ksenia Polson: Right? So if we were to compute the Z score right that correspond to the top 25% right of premiums. Ksenia Polson: or the 75th percentile of the standard normal distribution. Ksenia Polson: What would it look like? Ksenia Polson: Right? Ksenia Polson: So remember, we can plug in Ksenia Polson: the our percentile right into the queue norm function Ksenia Polson: right to be able to find our Z score. Ksenia Polson: Can anyone do it for me? Real quick. Ksenia Polson: Do. Q. Norm, and then parentheses do point 7 5 right? For our 75th percentile Ksenia Polson: will actually give you the Z-score. Ksenia Polson: You're getting a point 6, 7, 4. Approximately. Ksenia Polson: It's what you should be getting. Ksenia Polson: In terms of Point B, right? What is the mean? Insurance cost? Ksenia Polson: Well, we're given that in the problem right? The mean is 1650, what is the cutoff of the 75th percentile for the 75th percentile in this 1,800? Ksenia Polson: And finally, right? It's asking, identify the standard deviation of insurance premiums in California. Ksenia Polson: Well, now, right? Based on the information that we have gathered, we have right. Ksenia Polson: the values we can plug into the Z score or not. Ksenia Polson: Right? Ksenia Polson: So we can actually use the values to compute well Ksenia Polson: the standard deviation. Ksenia Polson: So if we plug in the values right? We have our means. Ksenia Polson: And our the Ksenia Polson: population standard normal mean right under population mean, we get an approximately a value of 223 Ksenia Polson: right for standard deviation. Ksenia Polson: That's how much. Ksenia Polson: The premiums vary right within this market. Ksenia Polson: So and then the whole point of it is right. We've Ksenia Polson: talked about sample statistics right? But what if we want to generalize too much burger population? Ksenia Polson: Right? Well, we can actually look at pew research polls right Ksenia Polson: in order to understand public opinion. And you know some things people are talking about Ksenia Polson: right. And so the idea is to use the responses right from this representative sample of the Us. Population, and actually estimate right what the Ksenia Polson: opinions of the the bigger Us. Population right the broader Us. Population. Ksenia Polson: So we'll see an example soon. But here's well, the one we'll actually use for the discussion. And then the assignment. But Ksenia Polson: basically an example is right. There's a poll back in 2022 that talked about the use of driverless passenger cars right? And asking people, well, is that a good idea? Ksenia Polson: Right? And about 46%, Ksenia Polson: right? So just slightly less than half. So they would be a good idea. Ksenia Polson: So basically, what this 46% represents Ksenia Polson: is the call. The one is the point estimate of our approve of the approval rating right? Ksenia Polson: And we may see right if we actually collected responses from the entire population. Ksenia Polson: Since the entire population response is actually what we're after. Ksenia Polson: Right? Ksenia Polson: So we're using the sample to estimate our parameter or entire population. Ksenia Polson: So I know a little bit of vocab again. So that we're clear that these point estimates Ksenia Polson: these sample statistics that we're using right, including the queue poll. Ksenia Polson: right? Are actually become point estimators right in our inferences. Ksenia Polson: So the sample mean right is used to estimate the population mean right. The sample proportion is used to make this population proportion Ksenia Polson: and same with the standard deviation. Ksenia Polson: Recall that the sample standard deviation is also the same as the standard error of the mean right. Ksenia Polson: So this brings us to the central limit. Theorem, has anyone heard of the central limits? Ksenia Polson: So this basically assumes basically, again, we're making some assumptions right about our Ksenia Polson: variables right around our data. Ksenia Polson: So what we're assuming is that Ksenia Polson: the observations enter the cases right in our data are independent, right? So they're Ksenia Polson: ultimately not connected really in any shape or form. Ksenia Polson: so they're independent. The sample size is sufficiently large, like we'll talk about what sufficiently large means. In a minute Ksenia Polson: the sample proportion will follow a normal distribution with the following properties. Ksenia Polson: Right? Ksenia Polson: So you can. We can in a way Ksenia Polson: qualify for the central limit theorem by selecting random samples Ksenia Polson: right size. N, these are our sample representing the sample, the our sample data sets. Ksenia Polson: and then the sample distribution right of our sample mean right? That's the x with the hat Ksenia Polson: can be approximated by normal distribution as the sample size increases. Ksenia Polson: So what this is basically saying, right? Even if the population Ksenia Polson: from which we're selecting a random sample does not have a normal distribution. Ksenia Polson: If right, the sample size is big enough, it doesn't matter Ksenia Polson: right? We can still make that assumption. Ksenia Polson: We're meeting the condition of the central limit, theorem Ksenia Polson: right, and can use the sample to estimate our population parameters make our inferences. Ksenia Polson: Well, what is a big population say, I mean, and this is again, this is Ksenia Polson: we're not talking about machine learning here. Right? This is statistical testing Ksenia Polson: where the assumptions are a little different right? Whereas you can see Ksenia Polson: right? As our sample size approaches 30, which is the minimum amount, right? And again, the minimum amount right for us to be able to run a statistical analysis test and actually have some confidence in the inference that we might be making Ksenia Polson: right. Ksenia Polson: And basically what this is showing is right for these 3 different populations. Right? As the sampling increases right, your sample size increases, you can see how it starts. Kind of approximating Ksenia Polson: the normal probability, distribution, right? That normal curve. Ksenia Polson: But Ksenia Polson: right again, in machine learning, this would not fly right because we need much larger sample sizes to for the calculations that are required on that. This is, strictly speaking, to parametric statistics, right? Things like Anova regression, you know. Hypothesis test. Okay? Ksenia Polson: The more the larger sample we have Ksenia Polson: the vendor. It's going to be around on this right? Ksenia Polson: Yeah, basically, right? We're starting out right with any of these populations. We can see Ksenia Polson: right? Because we're adding number of cases. Ksenia Polson: Right? Are the number of Ksenia Polson: right? You could see how this, the normal distribution curve becomes more normally distributed. Ksenia Polson: So hypothetical example, right? So real, simple. But they could makes a good point. Right? Ksenia Polson: So if we have Ryan, this is Ksenia Polson: in reference to the sampling idea. Ksenia Polson: So we have 4 individuals in our population. Ksenia Polson: Right? Ksenia Polson: So this is our. Ksenia Polson: for example, we're asking them about the reviews on autonomous cars. Right? This is our population. Ksenia Polson: right? For demonstration purposes. There's only 4 people in our population. Ksenia Polson: Well, we only survey 2 of them right? So we're taking a sample of 2 people at random. Ksenia Polson: Right. So the 6 possible combinations that we may have right based on any of the combinations of the 4 people. Are these Ksenia Polson: right? And again, their responses are in the range of one to 5. Ksenia Polson: So if we were to actually compute right the average response of our population from the 4 people Ksenia Polson: right, the mean of our population would be 3.7 5. Ksenia Polson: Right? Ksenia Polson: Hello. Ksenia Polson: So we're back, unclear. Ksenia Polson: Yeah, you can see it's slightly better. Let me see if I can trying to tweak Ksenia Polson: So this is our, the true. Ksenia Polson: this is their true population. Mean right? If we sampled the 4 people well, I guess it wouldn't be sampling them right if we had the data from our population. Ksenia Polson: Right? Our population mean would be 3.7 5. Ksenia Polson: However, right? In reality, we sampled right if we sampled any of these 6 combinations Ksenia Polson: right? This is what what the the 3rd column shows, what the mean value would look like. Ksenia Polson: So what is it showing to us? Ksenia Polson: Is it the same as the population mean? Ksenia Polson: No right, none of them are 3.7 7 5, but they're close, right? Ksenia Polson: So the mean of the sample takes on the distribution of these values. Ksenia Polson: So the point being right, we may never be Ksenia Polson: exactly correct right? That's why we have standard errors and Ksenia Polson: residuals, right and errors that are associated with our analysis. But what is this showing is? It can be pretty close Ksenia Polson: right if we do it correctly. Ksenia Polson: any questions. Ksenia Polson: let's try. So the plan is to. I'll show you little bit more Ksenia Polson: on sampling in the lab, and we'll look at the discussion. Ksenia Polson: Okay, so here's our lab, this screen. Ksenia Polson: Alright. So this is basically like a sampling simulation. You'll practice your for loop in this. Ksenia Polson: So what I'm showing is compute the mean of 3 independently drawn samples. Ksenia Polson: What are the values of your sample means right? Ksenia Polson: Does anyone know what setting the seed does? Ksenia Polson: Take a guess, basically tells R to Ksenia Polson: generate the same values each time. Right? So our answers are, reproducible. Say, what Ksenia Polson: make it a little bigger? Ksenia Polson: Yeah, I think they're should be. So I'm doing control, plus here. Ksenia Polson: Is that better? Ksenia Polson: So here we're actually going to randomly generate a normal distribution right? The mean of 5 Ksenia Polson: and your standard deviation of 10. Right? So you see, we're actually pre allocated Ksenia Polson: right? Our 1st vector where we're creating a vector with 3 different sample distributions. Ksenia Polson: Right? So here we generated our Ksenia Polson: population, mean or sample mean? Rather. Ksenia Polson: So let's do it for the second and 3rd one, right? Ksenia Polson: So this is actually quite redundant to move on Ksenia Polson: so one way to do it. And I see you the for loop to do this at once. Ksenia Polson: Right? Ksenia Polson: We're actually telling R that we want to create these 3 sampling distributions. Ksenia Polson: Ryan news. I right to do it. Ksenia Polson: You see, we give the same values right from both options. Ksenia Polson: Here we compute the mean of 300 samples, right? Using for loop Ksenia Polson: nice. And we get music 300 here. Ksenia Polson: And you'll see actually, in my plot function. Ksenia Polson: It's showing up now. Ksenia Polson: I think I changed the setting right. So you'll notice it's no longer showing my graphs Ksenia Polson: right as I run them. But it's showing in Ksenia Polson: in this case it's actually pending Ksenia Polson: on the under the viewer pane. Right? Oops something Ksenia Polson: you can see whatever you like best. Ksenia Polson: You can also click on zoom right to be able to Ksenia Polson: have a larger window and can look at it. Ksenia Polson: And so we have approximately normal distribution there. Ksenia Polson: So Ksenia Polson: yes, this is conceptual right? But the idea is to show you right kind of drive, the point of sampling within a population home. Ksenia Polson: Basically what we're going to do is we're going to draw this completely. This huge sample of a hundred, 1 million observations. Ksenia Polson: Right? So we'll say, that's our population Ksenia Polson: right? And then we'll customize it Ksenia Polson: and actually approximate the normal distribution rule on it. Ksenia Polson: Okay, so we still, our mean is still 5 and your standard deviation is 10. Ksenia Polson: No. Ksenia Polson: yeah. Ksenia Polson: Huh! Ksenia Polson: Okay, we must have forgotten to upload. Ksenia Polson: No, there you go. Ksenia Polson: Keep me doing. Ksenia Polson: Is this not in? Ksenia Polson: Oh, okay. Oh, I see. Okay. Ksenia Polson: yeah, I can upload this as well. Ksenia Polson: Sorry about that to check it more. Ksenia Polson: Maybe that's Ksenia Polson: here. Ksenia Polson: I'll put it up. Top. Ksenia Polson: Yeah. Ksenia Polson: Well, now, now, I'm also, Ksenia Polson: basically, right? It's just showing you the Ksenia Polson: the probability distribution plots right for our Ksenia Polson: what we call the population distribution this time, right? With a mean of 5 and standard deviation of 10 for a sample size of 1 million Ksenia Polson: pieces. Ksenia Polson: Ryan, we can actually apply the the rule to it. Ksenia Polson: Right? So we can actually find the probability, future probabilities. Ksenia Polson: So instead of describing it, let's take a sample. Ksenia Polson: We will overlay our 68, 95, Ksenia Polson: 99, rule 99.7 rule Ksenia Polson: altered. Ksenia Polson: So this is what it would look like Ksenia Polson: here, we're adding Ksenia Polson: rule. Ksenia Polson: So the mean of our the population mean right is 7.4 6. Ksenia Polson: So this was different from write our samples, which we computed up top. Ksenia Polson: So again, the point is, it's not the same, but it's close enough. Ksenia Polson: I think, that we can use our sample to make a Ksenia Polson: generalization right? An approximation about our population. Ksenia Polson: So what if I took 5,000 samples right and stored. The mean of each sample are the sample means different. Ksenia Polson: Right? So here's another way doing it here. Ksenia Polson: And if I ran it. Ksenia Polson: these are the sample values that we did. Ksenia Polson: So as long as we have multiple samples, right? So we have this repeated sampling that's occurring, we actually can calculate statistics based on these distributions, we can calculate right or all of our descriptive statistics that we need. Ksenia Polson: So in that way, the average of the sample means becomes the population. Ksenia Polson: Right? So again, the X pop is the mean of our population, and the X bar is our sample sample mean Ksenia Polson: right? And you would see they're very close Ksenia Polson: when you compute the same for standard deviations. Ksenia Polson: Right? You can actually see the standard deviation of the sample. Mean is is smaller Ksenia Polson: than the population, standard deviation, or the Sigma. Ksenia Polson: Right? So there is a quite the distinction there. Ksenia Polson: So the standard deviation, the sampling means is called the standard layer. Ksenia Polson: But one more thing. One last thing right. Ksenia Polson: What happens when the sample size goes up? Ksenia Polson: Oh, my God! Ksenia Polson: Room Ksenia Polson: anyways too much. Ksenia Polson: Oh, man, right? What do we know. Ksenia Polson: I think it was like Ksenia Polson: you can see again, right as we saw earlier. Oh, excuse me, but the shape of the distribution right? Resembling a normal probability Ksenia Polson: distribution that we saw earlier Ksenia Polson: any questions so far. Ksenia Polson: Why don't you take a break and come back? Ksenia Polson: We'll work on the discussion piece? Ksenia Polson: Basically, as I mentioned. Ksenia Polson: right, the survey data is coming from what's called the American Trans Panel Survey Ksenia Polson: right from the Pew Research Center. Ksenia Polson: So if you go to the site here, we'll actually give you Ksenia Polson: these publicly available data sets right? Dating back to 2014 Ksenia Polson: looks like the last one that they uploaded was in August of 2023. Ksenia Polson: I think a whole lot of time Ksenia Polson: that they haven't posted them, but they have been fairly consistent, and you can see over the years. Ksenia Polson: As far as the analysis is concerned, right? So this is specific example Ksenia Polson: is referencing the 2021 wave, 82, mine. This is where I got the data. Ksenia Polson: I adopted some tutorials Ksenia Polson: right to be able to analyze the survey data. So you will need to install the survey package Ksenia Polson: right? To be able to perform analysis on this data. Ksenia Polson: Alright. So foreign survey need our entiters. Ksenia Polson: You'll find that most of the data files are actually in the Spss format right since the Ksenia Polson: different type of software that's more point and click. Ksenia Polson: But you can easily convert them to a Csv file. So you can. Ksenia Polson: you know, work with them a lot easier in the our data frame. So this is what we're doing in this chunk here. Ksenia Polson: just making data readable. Ksenia Polson: It's not my working directory Ksenia Polson: about some. Do some basic Eva analysis, right? Ksenia Polson: And get are the dimensions Ksenia Polson: you can get descriptive statistics on it. Ksenia Polson: And this is what our data frame looks like just trying to Ksenia Polson: so once we have our data loaded right, we can use the table function to see the distribution of our variables Ksenia Polson: guys here, we're looking at gender. Ksenia Polson: What we're also gonna need to do is use the survey design function Ksenia Polson: to create what is called a survey design object right? Ksenia Polson: And this is used to actually use the weights right that are associated Ksenia Polson: with the data right to be able to Ksenia Polson: draw population wide right observations on the data. Ksenia Polson: Right? So this is why we're using these weights for estimation, right to generalize to the broader Us population. Ksenia Polson: So this is what we're doing here. Ksenia Polson: Right? We're specifying that there are no clusters Ksenia Polson: specifying the data set and also including the weight variable Ksenia Polson: right for this particular wave of data. Ksenia Polson: So once we have Ksenia Polson: specify this in our survey design right, we can actually obtain our weighted estimates by using the survey mean function. Ksenia Polson: Okay, this function will let us compute all of our descriptive statistics that need. Ksenia Polson: So what was what was this question? What was this question asking right of the from this Us sample Ksenia Polson: question was thinking about our economic situation? Right? So this is back in February of 2021, Ksenia Polson: how would you describe the current economic situation in the Us. Ksenia Polson: And you have these 4 options right? Ranging from very good to very bad. Ksenia Polson: right? So as soon as you plug in the values. Ksenia Polson: right? So this is our question. Ksenia Polson: This is our survey design objects. Ksenia Polson: right? That we created up here. Ksenia Polson: Right? We can actually get a range of our responses right? Ksenia Polson: So based on the average values. Ksenia Polson: Right? What? What does it look like? How does the American public feel about the economic situation? Yes, Ritha. Ksenia Polson: yeah. The majority of them right? Over 50%, 50, just over 52%. Right? To be exact, they're saying the situation is somewhat bad. Ksenia Polson: Right? The next grouping of 25% same is somewhat good. Ksenia Polson: So I'm going to actually use the tidyverse package to combine 2 questions Ksenia Polson: right to give us even more information. Ksenia Polson: So the question here is asking, what kind of leadership should the Us. Play in the world? Right and the options are? It should be a single world leader, play a shared leadership role and not playing leadership role Ksenia Polson: question 30 is kind of building upon the knowledge and saying, Well, if you answered. Ksenia Polson: play a shared role. Right? Should the Us be most active of the leading nations, or should be as active as other leading nations. Ksenia Polson: Right? So here we're actually recoding the values. Ksenia Polson: using the case when fun, when function, which will actually Ksenia Polson: look into if and then statements Ksenia Polson: and specify and return the value based on the conditions that we specify? Ksenia Polson: Right? So if we have a single world leader, we'll say a single world leader. But if they said right, the plane, the Us should play a shared leadership role. Ksenia Polson: Then we'll also consider the next question, right? Ksenia Polson: So this is what it's doing. Ksenia Polson: And then we can see if it works. Ksenia Polson: Let's just work assuming. And the other ones. Ksenia Polson: Yeah, we can actually see right how many people right had Ksenia Polson: reply right to each of our response options. Ksenia Polson: you know. Look at some of the other variables here. Right? So this is education. Ksenia Polson: so here, obviously, this was, this is coming from a national survey. So this is clean data if you will. I don't have to do any Ksenia Polson: cleaning with it, as already has been standardized and worked with by the center. But there's some options. If you were, you were to do it on your own. Ksenia Polson: Alright. So since we're using it to try to generalize to the broader Us. Population. Ksenia Polson: we do need to make sure we use right, the survey weight variable. Ksenia Polson: And we can use the select function to only include the variables that you need. Ksenia Polson: Okay, this is what we're doing here. Ksenia Polson: So we're looking at us leadership and the weights. Ksenia Polson: How many ids are included here? Ksenia Polson: Here, we're including right? We're just Ksenia Polson: renaming some of the other variables. Right? So since we're gonna Ksenia Polson: use the demographics right? With education, age, and race in our graph. Ksenia Polson: here, we're converting the data set from a long format to a wide formats. Ksenia Polson: right to actually compute weighted summary statistics of our demographics. Ksenia Polson: Again, we're looking at education, race and age. Ksenia Polson: Okay? So we're regrouping it here right to get more insights. Ksenia Polson: the weighted. These are the weighted estimates for our Us. Leadership question. Ksenia Polson: Probably. Just see somewhere. Ksenia Polson: Subject. Ksenia Polson: Yeah, we'll have to figure it out. Ksenia Polson: Oh, I'm working early. Ksenia Polson: Where are we? Again, weighted estimates of this leadership question by the demographics. Ksenia Polson: So now we're actually starting getting a picture right by Ksenia Polson: what are the responses looking like? Right? Based on the demographics that we have captured? Ksenia Polson: Also, that's kind of useful. But I think really, looking at the plots Ksenia Polson: really will give us a better idea, right of what the data is saying to us. Ksenia Polson: So we're looking at attitudes toward the role of the Us. In the world. Ksenia Polson: Right? And we're taking the demographics into account. Ksenia Polson: Right? This is what it looks like. Ksenia Polson: Try to make it slightly bigger. So you can see. Oh. Ksenia Polson: yeah, I think the format is for this one Ksenia Polson: we have to sometimes tweak with the Ksenia Polson: or plots. Ksenia Polson: There we go. That's go. Ksenia Polson: right? So basically, we're comparing right or service participants about their views on the leadership role of us and the world. Ksenia Polson: Right? And these are the 4 response. Ksenia Polson: well, yeah, I guess the 4 response options, right and kind of the the more active or Ksenia Polson: about as active right kind of also, including what the other question was asking, as well. Ksenia Polson: Right? And the demographics right by age, education, and race. Ksenia Polson: Alright. So what are we finding here. Ksenia Polson: anyone told me, based on the scrap. Ksenia Polson: So what what do most people do? Ksenia Polson: Right? So this is our Ksenia Polson: weights of estimates. Right? With the larger the percentage the higher the number of people right believe a certain way Ksenia Polson: right now. So how many people do we send them over? Ksenia Polson: Not a lot. Frankly, percentages are fairly low. Ksenia Polson: But as we move this way, right, most people do seem to say, and this is goes across all demographics right across the age. No matter your age or education, or your race Ksenia Polson: right? For the most part Ksenia Polson: right people believe that us should be as active right in their leadership capacity among the world. Ksenia Polson: No matter your demographic makeup right, and think that Ksenia Polson: Us. Leadership role should be as active, right as the other nations. Ksenia Polson: Does that make sense? Ksenia Polson: And that was having some issues or anything. But Ksenia Polson: this is essentially a 1 way. Ksenia Polson: You can present this information. Ksenia Polson: Wait Ksenia Polson: there any questions. Ksenia Polson: You're okay. Ksenia Polson: So for the discussion, what I want you to do right? So continue using this file. And I want you to look at Ksenia Polson: this question. 28. Ksenia Polson: Of the survey right? Gap 21 question, 28, Ksenia Polson: and what can you generalize to the Us. Population? Right by looking at demographics. Ksenia Polson: So I want you to kind of execute right? Basically the same code, just for a different question. Ksenia Polson: And so I want you to look at at least 2 demographics right? And how they responded Ksenia Polson: right to this question. Ksenia Polson: And for the homework, right? It's very similar. Right? I want you to Ksenia Polson: choose any wave you want, right, any wave that you're interested in in pink 2 or 3 questions. Ksenia Polson: And right, look at what the responses look like right for those questions. Ksenia Polson: right? So make sure you include the weights. Right? You create the survey design objects Ksenia Polson: right? So you can generalize to the broader population using your sample Ksenia Polson: plot, any of those visualizations that you think might be useful. Ksenia Polson: be sure to include some kind of summary right of what you found right? What do the results actually mean? Ksenia Polson: Right for the broader picture. You know, based on this demographic right? Most people believe that. Ksenia Polson: you know. XY, and Z, so okay. Ksenia Polson: does that make sense? Right? So just a little bit more practice. Right? Looking at this national type data set and drawing Ksenia Polson: conclusions, right inferences based on like the sample data name. Ksenia Polson: Yeah, are my folks online, you doing okay? Ksenia Polson: Good. Ksenia Polson: We'll go ahead and work on the discussion piece, right? And I can answer any questions you may have. 